All right.
In the last section, we have got the information from Firestorm and we populated these post sections
here.
In this section, we're going to add the like functionality to the post so a person can link and remove
its life.
And also, if a person is not sign in, the person is going to be redirected to the signing page.
So let's just start with the last section.
But before continuing, I just realized something that this moment doesn't work.
It's always showing a few seconds ago.
So let's go back to Visual Studio, go and fix it.
So inside the moment we forgot to add that data like this.
So here we just need to add.
Data.
Now, if you look at our work, you see that is.
One day ago the time that I recorded this with you.
Okay, uh, let's continue and add the, like, functionality.
Well, we just need to add a.
On click on this icon, which is the heart icon.
And when we click on it, we trigger a function that sends data to the fire store and add the user name
I.D. and a post I.D. inside a post.
We searched for the post I.D. and then we add the username to that particular post that we are liking.
So let's do this.
So we go back to Visual Studio code and we just find the heart icon in the poster case.
So we have the heart icon here.
So we add it and click on it, and we're just going to trigger a function called like posts.
Let's create the function at a time.
So this is going to be an asynchronous function.
So we just write async function.
So you can either make your error function to it's up to you this time I'm using this form of function.
So we just call it like post and here.
Now we're going to await and set a document inside.
Fiery firestorm set.
Dark is a built in function from Firestorm, so we need to import it.
So here, let me.
Yet the author suggests it doesn't suggest me.
So we need to import it manually at the top.
So we just say import.
Said, Doc.
From.
Fire.
Face forest.
Last forest.
Okay.
This set doc takes in a few things.
The first one is Doc, and we for the document, we want to add it to the TV document that is coming
from fire.
Uh, here, the fire bass touches the exported DP.
So here we are imported.
And also the import doc from Firestone.
And the document we want to search is the posts.
And what we want to search is the post.
IED.
So if you're getting the post information, you can get the idea here.
Just remember, we don't need to add data for the IED because data is just for the other things.
Yeah.
We want to create another collection called Life.
Okay.
And inside their lives, I want to add the persons already.
So in order to get the persons, I need a person who is signing.
We need to use the use session.
So we just import who's session?
From Nick's.
Off for slash reacts.
This should be important.
Okay.
Then we need to initialize it.
So we need to get initialize decision.
We get the data and we call the data session.
And this is coming from use session.
What?
So let's add the user here.
So we should say session that user.
Dot I.D., user I.D. or.
This is the Google user I.D..
Okay.
Now, after this one is finished.
Also, we want to add the person's information as a field.
So we just we just saved the user name.
Yes.
They used the session.
That user that user name added here.
So let's test this on.
If you go to our browser in the first picture, we're just saying nice.
Let's add click here.
So we didn't get any error.
So let's go check it inside the database.
It's a database.
So inside a post, the one that is saying nice.
This one now has a collection of likes.
And also it has the.
Username inside, and this is the user ID that the person has.
This is similar to this one.
User ID the person who created the post.
Okay.
Let's try this with another account.
Uh, so we go back to the website, I sign out and I signing with another G-mail account.
So let's sign in.
I choose the other one.
So now if I like the first one.
We check the.
Database.
We have two likes here and this one is the user ID of the other account.
And then you can see the name as well.
Okay.
We we've done it and now in a way that we did.
But the problem is we don't see that the like.
We want to change the color of this one if someone liked it.
And also when we click on it, we want to remove their like.
But for doing that we need to get the alikes first.
We should know firstly that the this post has a like or not or it has a like with the person that is
signing or not.
And if it has a like at least show the number of likes.
Okay, it's a quite a lot of things to do, but let's do it step by step.
The first step is just make this one read when somebody liked it.
So first we need to get the logs from the database.
So we go back to Visual Studio code.
So here at the top we add another piece of state and we call this one likes and we just say set likes.
And this is going to first we need to get the likes on database and send it to these state.
So this is going to be called to use a state.
And the initial value would be just an empty array because this is an array of people who like this.
And we need to import.
Use.
And States.
From.
React.
Okay.
So let's add a space here and here to talk.
No, we got this one.
So the other things we need to do is just to be use use effects to get the information.
So we just use a fax.
Use effects going to have a functional also dependency the dependency you want to add I think the database,
it's fine and then we need to create the unsubscribe function as we did before.
An unsubscribe function is going to get the snapshot on snapshot.
And Snapshot, if you remember, has some other things like collection.
So we want to have the check, the collection of the B.
And the TV.
The.
Documents post, and we checked the post.
That I.D..
You want to check?
Because we are in the post that, yes, we want to check the posted I.D. and we check if it has a likes
or not is a like likes collection and.
After this.
We want to get the information as a snapshot.
Shot.
It's.
And we sit there like that, we have created here at a top.
Here we sit like.
To a snapshot.
Dot docs.
This is information is coming from a snapshot.
Now.
We got the lyrics, we got all the lyrics, if they'd like, is available.
And we said it inside this piece of estate.
Okay, now.
We want to check that the user is sign in.
Already has liked the post or not.
So this is going to be another piece of estate.
So let's copy this and we just change this font to has.
Likes.
Or has it like you can say a set?
Has liked.
And the initial value of this would be false.
Know you don't want to have lies first.
But.
We check using use effect.
That has a like or not so use effect as a function.
And also at dependency and dependence.
This is here is the likes.
If this piece of estates change, we want to trigger this.
And use the fact and check that the person has likes or not has liked it or not.
Okay.
No.
We want to sit has like.
If.
We check the likes.
First we find the index.
Find the index of the like.
We get the like and then we just say, like that IED.
Is equal to the person that is signing, which is a session Dutch user.
That's a user ID.
And I show you here again.
So this user I.D..
If it's equal to the person end.
This is the post.
So if you come back, this post is created by this person under 40.
So if the person is signing is hundred 14.
Like it and they're.
There has the life estate is true.
But if the other person.
Comes.
Yeah.
This is for the number of likes.
And, uh, yeah, if the person is coming, for example, like the year and the person is a signing
has the same user ID we want to make the make their heart icon filled with the red color who we cannot
see we have are getting error.
So we didn't import to use effect.
So let's bring inside use a fact.
Okay.
So now we are checking if they're like are these equal to the decision that it and this is the.
Now, let me show you about the picture.
Yeah.
This one is should be.
Not equal.
Two minus one.
I'm going to show you in a second why I did it so.
Let's imagine the likes has an array like this.
And we have, for example, the first user who, like this one is like a one, two, three.
The user I.D. The second one is three, five, six.
And then etc..
Many people this find index is going to check that if the person is signing has the same idea of their
person or already like this one in the array.
If this is true, we get the index and the index can be zero one, two and etc. the only things.
So if this one is not is equal to minus one, it means that this is outside the array.
So the person is not liked.
Has not like the post.
I don't know why I'm explaining it in a way that you understand.
That's a sort of minus one is outside the array.
Any other numbers that comes?
It means that the person is already like the host.
Okay.
No, we we know that person is liked or not so we can use this has like now to fill our.
An icon here.
Uh, Hart, aka.
So we're going to import another icon at a top.
But this one is from solid.
So just say import.
Heart icon from hero icons.
But this one is instead of heart like solid oak.
But because the name is similar, we need to save this one as a different name.
So we just say this one should be heart icon.
Field, for example, it changed the name.
Okay.
So if you use this heart, I can't feel.
Yeah.
So we, we copy this one one time and we change the, the, the top one to field and we added ternary
operator.
We just say if has liked then.
Show this field one.
Otherwise.
Sure.
The other.
Mm hmm.
And also, uh.
And this one should be a question mark.
Now, it's correct.
And the first one, instead of hover, gets the text read.
We want the text.
To be a rat instead.
So let's check now.
Let's refresh the page.
Now on a snapshot is not defined, so we need to import it.
Let's go.
Yeah.
On Snapshot.
Let's import this from the fire store.
I feel we need to import collection to.
I think fine index is a built in JavaScript function.
Okay.
Let's check.
Yeah.
We are not getting an error.
And this is filth because the person is like a house like this.
So let's try the other one.
Like this one, which is spirit.
The person is signing.
Is this fun san media?
So when I like now, this one turned to red.
So let's check in the database.
So the.
At this point.
The last post that is Bird now has a likes and dislikes.
It's created by this person, which is Sahand Garrido.
Okay.
But if is signing with another person, let's say not.
We need to protect this one because if you are not signing, you get an error.
So here.
We just protect ourselves.
We add the question mark here.
Hey, let's refresh the page.
Now lets sign in with another account.
But this account got it's hand.
Now.
The birds should not have any like.
This far.
No.
If we click, we should get A like and B, this one has two likes now.
Okay.
But the next step we want to do is to remove the like.
So now if I click here.
Nothing happens.
Okay.
Because it's already has a life and the in its has another attempt.
But let's go back to Visual Studio code and let's look at a ternary operator here.
Say if the person it has like this on.
Yes.
If there is no like we want to add the like.
But if it doesn't have like we want to remove the like actually.
So here we want to wait.
Because it gives us a promise.
So wait.
And instead of said, like, we want to delete the like.
So we just say Delete Doc.
And this is coming from Firestone, too.
And this is similar to the one we did at the bottom.
So it just gets dark.
DB And inside.
DB We want to go to posts and we just choose the posted I.D. and inside the likes.
We to remove.
That person or uh, which has, uh, which, which is signing which is a session user.
Dot user I.D..
Okay.
And also, we want to protect ourselves, too, if we are not society.
So let's try this.
No, this one is.
Yeah.
I can see when I click.
The heart goes back to the normal.
And let's check the database.
We bring it here at the right time this year.
So we add the like you can see a new person is adding and then you click again.
They're like is removed.
Okay.
So next step we want to.
And the number of likes.
We already got all the likes here by using these effect use effects and we set it inside this estate
likes.
So we just need to go here in the heart icon.
We add it, let's add a div and cover both of them.
Very.
Just bring them inside.
And inside this tier, let's add another section.
They just had a.
Ternary operator.
Just say if the likes number.
Luck's not length is greater than zero.
If it has a like, then.
They want to create a span.
I've done some work like that and.
And inside this band, we want to show the number of likes, just the likes.
That length.
I think it's going to work now, but it's not the style.
So this one has to like remove this now one like.
Okay, now let's for example, this one doesn't have any like.
Now it has one light, so it's just a little bit starlet.
Let's bring it next to each other.
Both of these.
So we just say flex.
And, uh.
I turn center.
Let's check it now.
It looks okay now.
But when?
And it has a like I want the color to be red and also let's change the ticks a little bit smaller.
So here, let's add a class name.
And the last thing I want to add is.
Uh, first.
Uh.
Yeah, let's check.
They make this fun.
Variable.
And we say if.
Has the like.
Then we.
We just want to make the text to be read.
Text to be.
Read.
600.
Let's face it now.
Oh, we get an error.
Let's see.
But.
We didn't close this.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now let's test it again.
It's the first page.
Now if you didn't like it, it's just the color is black.
Let's make it a small truth.
So it.
Yes.
Uh.
Yeah, outside is just a text.
A small.
And also you can see this cursor.
We can remove this cursor if you don't want to see it.
Easily just say select.
No.
You don't see the curse.
Let's find the other functionality I want to add and we are not signing like this.
No.
Nobody's signing.
When I like.
I want to be redirected to do the signing page.
I firstly.
Actually, we get an error.
So we need to prevent the error by protecting that.
So and then also we want to redirect the person to the signing page.
So we go back to the Visual Studio code and here in the function like post.
First we check if the person is signed in if the session is true.
Then we want to have this as like everything inside this.
Otherwise, we want to redirect the person to the signing page.
So we just here we just say sign.
In.
And we need to import this one from next off.
First batch react at a top.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now let's test this.
Now, I'm not signing.
So when I click, I go to the sign in page.
It's signing with someone, for example.
This person.
That is me.
Okay.
Now we can.
And like.
Okay.
Looks very nice.
All right.
That's it for this section.
Let's add this one to the guitar.
So we just take it at all and B, make a message of, for example, at.
Like.
Functionality.
Twitter posts.
Okay.
Let's push this one to.
Get half hour check what we have done this.
We click on Twitter to refresh the page.
And now we have 15 commits in our repository and the last one is at like functionality to the post.
So we imported quite a lot from via store collection, delete or deleting.
On a snapshot, we're getting the information as set up for making a new document.
Uh.
We have the session, we can't decision because we want to check if the person is signing or not.
We we cut the number of likes from the database and save it to this state.
And we also check that if the person is signing has liked it already or not.
We use this use effect to get the number and all the likes here.
We we use this, you use the fact to check the, uh, the person is liked or not has like the post or
not.
And then we have, we created this function and if the person is signing can like or remove the like
by doing this or it's going to be redirected to this signing page.
We fixed the phone for a moment.
And also we.
Now we added another icon.
Heart icon filled that when the person has liked the post.
This is going to be shown.
And the number of likes is shown by this.
So if the number of likes is more than zero, we can show it here.
Okay.
That was it for the next section.
See you for the next section.